---
layout: doc
title: Migration Notes
---

# Npgsql 3.3

Npgsql 3.3 is out and available on nuget.org. This is a major release with substantial internal changes and should be deployed with care. For critical applications it may be advisable to wait until 3.3.1 is out.

<TYPE HANDLING>
<ASYNC AVOIDANCE>

## Major Changes


## Breaking Changes from 3.2

> [!Warning]
> The API for binary import (COPY IN) has changed substantially in a breaking way, and code from 3.2 will *not* work as-is on 3.3.
>
> You must now call `NpgsqlBinaryImporter.Commit()` to save your imported data; not doing so will roll the operation back. `NpgsqlBinaryImporter.Cancel()` has been removed - simply closing/disposing the importer will implicitly cancel the import. This is similar to how `TransactionScope` works and is necessary to prevent accidental commit of data on exception. See [#1646](https://github.com/npgsql/npgsql/issues/1646).

* .NET Standard 1.3 is no longer supported. .NET Standard 2.0 is the lowest supported version.
* Parameter types have become more strict. Previous versions allowed to you pass arbitrary value types, such as writing CLR string to int columns, or anything that implemented IConvertible. Although some implicit conversions are still supported (e.g. long -> int, short -> int), some have been removed.
* `NpgsqlParameter.EnumType` and `NpgsqlParameter.SpecificType` have been removed. To send enums or composites, use the new `NpgsqlParameter.DataTypeName` instead. See [Composites and Enums](../types/enums_and_composites.md) for more details.
* Parameter names are no longer trimmed, set your names to the exact parameter name specified in your SQL.
* If a parameter's name isn't set, it will no longer default to Parameter1, Parameter2, etc.
* The following APIs "connection capability" APIs have been removed from NpgsqlConnection: `UseConformantStrings`, `SupportsEStringPrefix`, `UseSslStream`.
* The default name translator, `NpgsqlSnakeCaseNameTranslator`, has been changed to handle acronyms better. Given the property name `IsJSON`, the old translator algorithm would output `is_j_s_o_n`, while the new outputs `is_json`. To revert back to the old algorithm, create a `NpgsqlSnakeCaseNameTranslator` instance with `legacyMode: true` and pass it when calling the `MapComposite` and `MapEnum` methods.
* If you are reading tables as composites ([#990](https://github.com/npgsql/npgsql/issues/990)), you will have to add the new `Load Table Composites` to your connection string.
